Below are answers to the entire question paper based on your syllabus and understanding as a first-semester MCA student:


---

1. What are the characteristics of software? (3 Marks)

1. Intangible: Software is not physical and exists as code and instructions.


2. Easily Replicable: Can be copied without additional costs.


3. Customizable: Software can be updated and modified.


4. Doesn’t Wear Out: Software does not degrade like hardware but can become obsolete.


5. Dependent on Hardware: Requires hardware to function.


6. Requires Maintenance: Needs updates and bug fixes.




---

2. Explain Sashimi Model. (3 Marks)

The Sashimi Model is a modification of the Waterfall model where phases overlap each other, allowing for some feedback between phases.

Key Features:

Overlapping phases for flexibility.

Early detection of errors due to feedback loops.


Example: The design phase may overlap with the requirements phase, allowing changes to be made before coding starts.



---

3. What are the basic concepts of a version control system? (3 Marks)

1. Versioning: Keeps track of changes in files over time.


2. Repository: Centralized or distributed location where all versions are stored.


3. Branching and Merging: Enables creating parallel versions (branches) and combining them later.


4. Collaboration: Multiple developers can work simultaneously on a project.


5. Backup: Safeguards code changes to prevent data loss.




---

4. How is software quality measured? (3 Marks)

Software quality is measured based on:

1. Functionality: How well it meets the requirements.


2. Reliability: Consistency of performance without failures.


3. Usability: Ease of use and user-friendliness.


4. Efficiency: Performance with minimal resource usage.


5. Maintainability: Ease of fixing bugs and adding updates.


6. Portability: Ability to run on different platforms.




---

5. Explain how to clone a Git repository. (3 Marks)

To clone a Git repository:

1. Copy the repository URL from GitHub or another source.


2. Run the command:

git clone <repository_url>

Example:

git clone https://github.com/example/project.git


3. The repository will be downloaded to your local system.




---

6. Explain COCOMO Estimation Model. (6 Marks)

The COCOMO (Constructive Cost Model) is a software cost estimation model that predicts the effort, cost, and time required to develop software based on project size.

Types:

1. Basic COCOMO: Simple estimation for small projects.


2. Intermediate COCOMO: Considers factors like reliability and complexity.


3. Detailed COCOMO: Includes all project phases and sub-systems.




Formula:

Where:

KLOC: Thousands of Lines of Code.

a, b: Constants based on project type (Organic, Semi-detached, or Embedded).



---

7. Explain the differences between git fetch and git pull. How can conflicts be resolved in Git? (6 Marks)

Difference Between git fetch and git pull:

Resolving Conflicts in Git:

1. Use git status to identify conflicting files.


2. Open the files and look for conflict markers (<<<<<<<, =======, >>>>>>>).


3. Edit the file to resolve the conflict, keeping the desired code.


4. Use git add <file> to mark as resolved.


5. Commit the changes with git commit.


6. Optional: Use GUI tools like VS Code or GitHub Desktop for easier resolution.




---

8. Explain predictive and adaptive waterfall models. How is it different from a model in which development phases overlap each other? (7 Marks)

Predictive Waterfall Model:

Traditional approach where phases (Requirements, Design, Implementation, Testing, Maintenance) are completed sequentially.

Suitable for projects with clear, fixed requirements.


Adaptive Waterfall Model:

Allows limited feedback loops between phases, making it more flexible than the predictive model.

Suitable for projects with evolving requirements.


Difference From Overlapping Models (e.g., Agile):

Waterfall Models: Sequential, limited flexibility, and no overlapping phases.

Overlapping Models: Phases overlap; for example, coding and testing happen simultaneously (e.g., Agile or Iterative models).



---

9. With an example, explain requirement specification. (6 Marks)

A Requirement Specification is a formal document that defines what the software system should do. It includes functional and non-functional requirements.

Example: Library Management System

1. Functional Requirements:

Allow users to borrow, return, and search for books.

Notify users of overdue books.



2. Non-Functional Requirements:

The system should support 5000 users.

Should respond to search queries within 2 seconds.



3. Assumptions:

The system will run only within the library's network.




Purpose: Ensures a clear understanding of the system’s objectives and serves as a reference for design and testing.


---
